---
title: 'Meet the Newest Member of Our Team: Hanna Snyder'
author: hanna@yellowco.co
wordpress_url: http://yellowco.co/?p=8184
date: '2017-03-13 04:00:21 -0700'
categories:
- Pioneer
---
<p>Hey ladies! <a href="https://www.instagram.com/joannawaterfall/" target="_blank">Joanna</a> here. Today, I'm super excited to introduce to you our newest team member and Editorial Director, Hanna Snyder. Hanna is from Arizona,&nbsp;rocks her natural blonde curls like no one else, has some killer style, and is the new face&nbsp;behind our blog, The Yellow Room.</p>
<p>Hanna moved out to LA after high school to go to FIDM, not knowing a soul or having lived in an urban city before. She's since flourished into a well rounded writer and designer.</p>
<p>We are overjoyed to have her on our team, and since she's the&nbsp;new face&nbsp;behind The Yellow Room, I&nbsp;thought it would be fun to do an introduction&nbsp;for you to get to know her. I asked Hanna some fun questions I genuinely wanted to know the answer to. Read all about Hanna and her story below!</p>
<p>&bull;&bull;&bull;</p>
<p><em><b>Tell us about who you are and what you're passionate about!</b></em><br />
<span style="font-weight: 400;">I&rsquo;m a designer and writer living in Los Angeles, I have for nearly six years now! Any story well told - whether through design, words, art, you name it - stirs me. I&rsquo;m a romantic about almost everything. I care deeply about people, living a full life, and working alongside other women in particular to find greatness in every facet of who we are. </span></p>
<p><em><b>How did you end up in LA? What's your story?</b></em><br />
<span style="font-weight: 400;">I came to LA a few short weeks after finishing high school to study fashion design in college. The idea feels a little less daunting now, because so many people here have the &lsquo;packed up and came here with nothing&rsquo; story, but it truly was, I think, one of the bravest things I&rsquo;ve done. I knew no one here, had never lived in such a large urban city, and was leaving everything and everyone I loved in a different state (albeit - a short six hour drive away). I spent so much of my high school life focused on doing everything &lsquo;right&rsquo; - meaning, filling my plate with every honors class, extracurriculars, sports, etc. to be set up for college the best I could. But when it came time to actually choose what I wanted to do, I realized I wanted to do nothing but go to an arts school. Again, it feels so normalized now, but when you&rsquo;re eighteen feeling like all the work you&rsquo;ve done academically has been a waste (not true), it definitely felt like a risk to come here and choose such a different life than I expected to have.</span></p>
<p><em><b>Tell us a bit about your background in fashion and how that's evolved over the years.</b></em><br />
<span style="font-weight: 400;">After graduating college, I worked in the industry for two years. While I enjoyed a good part of that time, I found myself longing to design for something I could be more connected to. I had a hard time feeling as attached to a product that was mass-produced, manufactured in another country, and in that specific time and place, really only profit-driven. So, I started exploring other areas of design and ended up with an amazing opportunity to intern and then work for a small letterpress and design studio in design and production. </span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">To be honest, I kind of just fell into doing graphic design, but it came with such fluidity to me because I was still designing for a tangible product, the medium just became paper instead of fabric. Since then, I have freelanced for a variety of projects helping develop brands through both design and content writing. </span></p>
<p><em><b>Has anyone impacted your life in a profound way? Tell us about it!</b></em><br />
<span style="font-weight: 400;">Countless. So much of my family and many friends have, but in the interest of not writing a novel&hellip;</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Regarding happiness and love - my grandparents. They have spoken some of the simplest assurances into my life, but ones that have rooted so deeply within me. I have often seen my Grandpa respond to the question &ldquo;How are you?&rdquo; with a smiling, &ldquo;Too good&rdquo;. The genuine contentment and joy they have in life and each other (they&rsquo;re reaching 85 and have been married since they were 18), and their calm in the face of hardship remind me to not take life too seriously - to enjoy it.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Regarding life - one of my best friends, Ashley. We started living together early on in friendship, and as we got to share life more closely, she showed me that I really could live whatever kind of life I wanted to. Her adaptability and ever-faithful posture that things </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400;">will</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400;"> work out influenced me so tangibly in seeing her live this out day to day. Also, I think every natural rule-follower (me) needs at least one person that shows you its okay to bend them a bit. She&rsquo;s the actual coolest and I would believe literally anything she tells me.</span></p>
<p><em><b>Describe your style.</b></em><br />
Overall - soft, feminine, clean cut. Some weeks a little more flowy and boho - some weeks very neutral. I love great classic pieces like a lovely colored coat or breezy button down. In the reality of most days, I am often in jeans and a t-shirt.</p>
<p><em><b>Favorite productivity hack?</b></em><br />
<span style="font-weight: 400;">My environment really affects me work-wise, so if the space I&rsquo;m in feels cluttered or overwhelming, then I </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400;">have</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400;"> to clean it to feel like my brain has room to work. I can&rsquo;t focus on what I need to be doing if I&rsquo;m seeing everything else left undone right in front of me. I&rsquo;m a to-do list queen. It really helps me to see everything I need to do visually, instead of having it buzz around in my mind as things I&rsquo;m trying to not forget. </span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">With writing especially, I like to get out of my normal space. I love a few particular coffee shops for this - ones that feel open and have that kind of dreamy lighting best for big thoughts. When I&rsquo;m stuck, I go walk. A really, </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400;">really</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400;"> slow walk. Something about the rhythm of it keeps me from being distracted.</span></p>
<p><em><b>Favorite way to spend your free time.</b></em><br />
<span style="font-weight: 400;">For me any time spent with great friends is time well spent - sometimes that means day trips to go hiking, getting coffee/meals, park picnics, or create nights, and sometimes that just means drinking wine and going through old embarrassing pictures of each other. I&rsquo;m pretty easy to please.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">On my own, I have really developed a love for cooking, and always enjoy some good introspective time writing or reading.</span></p>
<p><em><b>Your guilty pleasure?</b></em><br />
<span style="font-weight: 400;">Country line dancing. It&rsquo;s really fun I, swear. </span></p>
<p><em><b>What's a fun fact about you?</b></em><br />
Well, I just changed my hair part to the middle for the first time since elementary school (groundbreaking stuff). I was convinced it was making me dizzy the for the first few days though. Seriously, I felt disoriented - as if my head was weighted wrong. I can be a little dramatic like that.</p>
<p><em><b>What has been one of your biggest life lessons to date?</b></em><br />
There is a certain time for everything. Find gratitude for it during its own time, not just after it has passed.<br />
&bull;&bull;&bull;<br />
<em>We're so excited&nbsp;to have Hanna apart of our team here at Yellow. Want to see more of this talented gal?&nbsp;Say hi to her online:</em></p>
<p><strong>Website: <a href="http://www.hannasnyder.com/" target="_blank">hannasnyder.com</a>&nbsp;/&nbsp;Instagram:&nbsp;<a href="https://www.instagram.com/hanna.snyder/" target="_blank">@hanna.snyder</a></strong></p>
