---
title: ancestry test draft
date: 2018-03-30 04:00:00 -07:00
author: Jackie Boylhart
series: Heritage
---

How I Used A $99 Ancestry DNA Test As A Tool For Growth & Reflection 

A few years back, I was scrolling through my social feeds and saw a post from someone about results that they had gotten from a recent Ancestry.com DNA test. During this time, I was also digging into the recesses of my past trying to understand my lineage who I am where I came from and what “ancestral energies” with the hope that it would support me in somehow “discovering my purpose” by identifying my vocational heritage or “inheritance” (yeah...I know, super “woo-woo). 

I was in the process of pivoting in my career, discovering my gifts, strengths and unpacking my “purpose,” and thought learning more about my past could be a useful exercise to engage in. I studied the lives of people who seemed to have it together in terms of career -- meaning, they woke up every morning doing something they loved to do. I found that a significant portion of these individuals, were doing something that was “in the family.” There were teachers who loved teaching because that’s what their family did...doctor families, artist families, business families, creative families...the list goes on and on. There are even families with last names that are “occupations,” because that’s what they were “known for.” For example, Archer, Baker, Brewer, Butcher, Carter…. And while most people in my immediate family are “engineers,” I was hoping to find a “slant” on this family “heritage,” that perhaps was more suited to my personality. In addition to using my Ancestry DNA results to get more in touch with what I was “supposed to do,” on this Earth, I also wanted to get in more touch with the more “fun” cultural aspects of my ancestry -- specifically food and clothing -- so I could also have something to pass down to my children that connects them to the roots of their past.

And so at $99, I went with my impulses and purchased an Ancestry DNA test so I could have one more piece of the puzzle that is “me.” 

I waited patiently and anxiously as my Ancestry.com box was on its way. It arrived in the mail a few days later and I eagerly opened the box, read the instructions, and spit in the saliva tube (which was not the most pleasant process...but I just kept reminding myself of the clarity I was hoping to have after understanding my ancestry). 

I placed the tube inside the box, put on the mailing label and drove to the UPS store and shipped my sample away. And now came the “waiting game.” About eight weeks later, I received an e-mail notification that my DNA ancestry that my ancestry DNA matches were ready. It literally it felt like it was my birthday. 

So when I opened up my ancestry DNA results I was very surprised and intrigued to find a bit more nuanced story about my ancestors than I had grown up believing. 

The way the DNA ancestry test works is that they take a DNA sample from your saliva and then compare it to the other individuals who are in your database from those comparisons they are able to predict similarities in your DNA with other people from various regions around the world. So when I got my results back I expected about half of my my ancestry to be from the Asia East what was interesting about my results that only 31% of my ancestry matched only 31% of my DNA matched individuals from Asia East I had a significant portion 17% from Polynesia specifically the Samoan Islands. I never considered any relations with the Samoan Islands, and this result prompted me to explore the Samoan culture more. 

The other 52% of my DNA results came from Western Europe. My grandmother is from France, so of course I expected the Iberian Peninsula to be part of those results. However, something that was surprising to me was the 9% match with Scandinavia. I had always thought that my grandfather's side descended from Germans (or at least that's what I had always been told) but when I saw the 9% Scandinavian result I went to research the origins of my former last name “Foss” which is actually a variant of the surname “Voss” (yes like the water) which is the Scandinavian word for waterfall. And so I claim my 9% Scandinavian result to contribute to my love of simple natural design. Whether or not that's actually true is a different story, but for now, this is what I’d like to believe :-). 

There was also a significant portion of my DNA 13% that could be traced to Eastern Europe including a trace of European Jewish ancestry. had never considered myself to have any sort of Jewish lineage in my blood but I was fascinated that this was even a possibility. I had recently become very interested in the Jewish culture and religion and seeing this result prompted me to think perhaps my ancestors were calling to me from the beyond the veil of human existence to explore this part of my personal history…

And while learning this information was all fun and fine and well, there were two takeaways from this process that exceeded my expectations. 

First, I was struck by the idea that privilege, heritage, life purpose and life outcomes are interconnected ideas woven together that create the tapestry of our lives, for better or for worse. We are the result the sum total of experiences, both positive and negative, of our family trees not only in this life, but (as some may include) lives we experienced in the past. However, the most tangible manifestation of this privilege can be seen in our physical world as wealth, habits, traits, skills, knowledge and mindsets passed down, through families -- sometimes for the betterment of society, sometimes...not so much. 

Having a completed genealogy that dates back hundreds (if not thousands of years) is a relic of a socio-economic and racial privilege that binds families together across space and time and has been used as a source of power and dominion over others (that continues to this day in various forms, among people of all colors, across the globe ). The idea of a “Chosen” race or “Chosen” bloodline for rulership is very triggering to many people, and has been the source of countless disagreements and wars all rooted in FEAR -- the fear of loss, the fear of being “left behind,” the fear of losing influence and control or even the fear of never having influence or control. For millennia, fear has convinced stories that divide us because we believe we have “the way.” Theories of existence -- whether religious, scientific or something different altogether ultimately hinge on some of THE questions that drive humanity -- who are we, why are we here, what are we supposed to do and am I doing it? Am I okay?

Second, diving into my Ancestry really pushed me to consider and reflect on how I define being an “American,” how that informs my personal outlook and choices, and how I can use information about my ethnic differences to recognize . I consider myself to be BOTH a “salad-theory” American and “melting-pot” American. On one hand, I feel very strongly about being an American and am quick and willing to release my nationalities or other identities in favor of cultural assimilation. Yet, on the other hand, I was also interested in incorporating some ideas from my ancestral past to complement my “American-ness.” Sometimes we can get so caught up in our identities, our personal pains, and our personal struggles, that we forget that personal selfishness is detrimental to personal happiness and personal success. Or in other words, we forget that it is in our best-interest to do things outside of our best-interest. So for me, diving into my Ancestry reminded me that my struggles are not really my struggles, they’re humanity’s struggles and ultimately, what I personally may think is the “right” thing to do or what should happen in a situation, may actually not be the “right” or “best” thing to do for the collective. 

Ultimately, if I had to spend $99 to 
