---
title: charging what you need - freelance
date: 2018-02-07 04:00:00 -08:00
categories:
- Entrepreneurs
series: Respect
---

As creatives, freelancers and entrepreneurs, money is a hit or miss conversation isn’t it? We tend to dread the moment when our two invoices and Paypal requests go ignored for another week or when we leave the speaking engagement after quite a few moments of awkward lingering only to find out our check hasn’t been “cut yet”. When the mail coming is either really exciting or extremely depressing because it looks like you’ll be home again for another night eating cereal, oatmeal or whatever Trader Joes meal you can find in the back of the freezer.

What we do is work, what we create are products of numerical value which can be difficult to navigate through because who decides what they’re worth? The answer to that question is, YOU DO. It is necessary to apply a monetary value on what we create, what are hands, minds or voices are capable of contributing to the greater good of the world. If you don't find the value in what you do then how in the world is anyone else going to take you seriously? This was a very difficult lesson for me to grasp. In my wide range of freelance activities, rates and pricing were always and (still are) difficult to put down on paper. I remember during a meeting with a client for social media when after telling them my rates I immediately got this response, “You know, if you charged more then I would take you seriously. But whether you know it or not, the price you’re giving me is also telling me the quality of work you’ll deliver as well and that’s a huge turn off.” Yikes. I didn’t realize that by throwing out whatever low number I felt would make me more appealing ended up actually doing the very opposite. I had given a number that reflected how I ultimately viewed the value of my work and it wasn’t very high.

I didn’t come from a family of numbers nor did we engage in very many monetary or economic focused conversations except for about what we didn’t have. If I was to dive into my “psychology of money” I would know that it stems from a place of money always being a topic that brought about tension, arguments and stress. I’ve only recently realized how this has affected my mindset on pricing and rates now as a freelance, contracted professional. I would say yes to every event, every side gig and receive checks that made me feel disheartened and exhausted. Why? Because I did not communicate the value of my work and thus did not receive a pay that reflected it. This resulted in having to do some research and have eye opening conversations. I would google the approximate rates and other variables of professionals who were also in my field of speaking and poetry. I started to compare and contrast the packages they offered and the rates they applied to them and tweaking them for how it connected back to my own personal brand. I asked mentors and peers with my best interest in mind who had experienced my performances or workshops and asked how much they would value it at. And the numbers I received astounded me and what astounded me the most was how effortlessly they gave the amount meanwhile the moment it came out of their mouths I cringed. I had been placing the value of my work as low as I possibly could but it didn't match up to when others experienced what I offered as my craft and product that they viewed at a much higher value. What you offer not only has monetary values, it also offers a wide range of other values for the clients you’re working with and for yourself. I know that for me, I offer an emotional value with my work, the ability to allow people to walk away with a sense of renewed and restored identity and purpose and encouragement. When I come up with my rates, I break down the experience and the entirety of what I’ve seen happen as a result of working with my specific expertise.

Here's the thing: you make the rules. You get to call the shots. One of my mentors told me that I was not only the brand but the business and the product as well. When people request me for events, they aren’t just requesting what I offer: witty humor and poems that elicit the freedom to feel but they are ultimately requesting me as an individual to contribute to their event. That can be exhausting emotionally, spiritually and mentally so therefore I have full freedom to charge accordingly. If you are negotiating rates and you walk away from that negotiation feeling not seen nor heard then your answer to that client should be no. Your time is too precious and your work has too much value for it not to be appreciated by the person who is entrusting you to make a project, product or event come to life.

There are so many systems that are out there for you to create a system and process that makes the most sense for your work. With that freedom be bold in your asks, dream big and don’t set your standards low. Learn the art of negotiating and also how to stand your ground. Do your research and most importantly, find the values in why you create, you will ultimately come to the reminder that no, we don’t necessarily do this for the money but what an amazing life to be able to live when we get paid to do what we love.

Now let’s get practical and tangible shall we?
How do we actually go about setting rates and numbers for our work? Look at the breakdown of how your projects, bookings etc have been in the past, are they short term? Long term? Do they involve a set amount of hours a day? A week? Tracking your work is important so that there is integrity not only in the work you’re doing but also when it comes down to having a timesheet to backup the invoices you send out.  This entrepreneur website has a ton of different resources for you to search especially when it comes to specific freelance gigs, copywriting, graphic design, website creators and all of the above: https://www.entrepreneur.com/article/269991

For me as someone who travels to events that I’m hired for, gas and mileage is something I have to add to my rates. Usually this is per mile breakdown, if you’re traveling and meeting clients for any reason this is something you can add to your rate or you can choose to set a hourly meeting rate that includes gas within that number. Are you rehearsing? That’s a separate hourly rate from your performance flat rate. Do you have multiple drafts or edits? Have it in your contract that the client is allowed no more than two and any after is an additional ____ (insert amount here). Here’s a helpful rate calculator that allows you to plug in three simple variables: http://www.yourrate.co/

A few other additional and more general resources:
https://www.thebalance.com/freelancing-charge-the-rate-you-deserve-38878
Pinterest! Pinterest is actually an AMAZING resource for freelancers in every different arena, simply searching “freelance rates” in the search bar will give you an infinite amount of content like this one: https://cashvilleskyline.com/2016/09/28/freelance-gigs/

Remember this is your job and time is money literally, so just as if you would go in and clock into a place for anywhere between eight to maybe ten hours a day their time is quantified and so should yours!

_Photos by_