---
title: social media draft
date: 2018-05-23 04:00:00 -07:00
categories:
- Culture
author: Arielle Estoria
series: Voice
---

Ever since I was a little plastic heel wearing, tu-tu twirling girl, I have always been fascinated with the idea of storytelling. Before becoming a poet and a speaker, I told stories from the perspective of others through the art form of theater. I never intended on really pursuing a career directly related to the arts and instead studied Psychology in College and realized how integrated the idea of storytelling was in that field as well. And then finally, the idea of story telling through the lense of photography, being able to capture still moments of stories and freeze them as a memory. The idea of story telling is not just a past time or way of remembering parts of history but it’s actually part of us. Author Brene Brown in her book, “Rising Strong” talks about how stories are not just something we enjoy hearing or telling but relays how we are connected to them on a more deeper and intellectual level.

“We're wired for story. In a culture of scarcity and perfectionism, there's a surprisingly simple reason we want to own, integrate, and share our stories of struggle. We do this because we feel the most alive when we're connecting with others and being brave with our stories - it's in our biology. The idea of storytelling has become ubiquitous. It’s a platform for everything from creative movements to marketing strategies. But the idea that we’re “wired for story” is more than a catchy phrase. Neuroeconomist Paul Zak has found that hearing a story-a narrative with a beginning, middle, and end-causes our brains to release cortisol and oxytocin. These chemicals trigger the uniquely human abilities to connect, empathize, and make meaning. Story is literally in our DNA.”
Stories are such a necessary part of our society and who we are as human beings because it reminds us that we are connected, no matter the differences in our background or culture, we are all connected by stories. When I first started dabbling in social media it through Myspace, anyone remember that? Social media became a space where we realized now that not only do we love to tell, be part of and take in stories but it also shows us that we are stories. These spaces that we could alter, customize, share our thoughts and experiences in a very public forum to both strangers and friends alike became our outlets to not only share stories but to become them. Then slowly other forms of social medias came into our way of culture, from facebook being able to connect with friends both past, current and potentially even future and then instagram came and took it to a whole new level, storytelling in real time. The ability to curate feeds, connections and pages that directly relate to who we are, what we do and where we hope to go has completely transformed the concept of networking in phenomenal ways but in the midst of this curation, we started to lose something else: authenticity in our storytelling.

It is easy to get on social media and assume that everyone is living their most aesthetically pleasing, curated seamlessly, photo worthy lives. Especially with outlets such as instagram that allows us to put our best foot forward 24/7, our best hairstyles, most highlighted moments and instagrammable food. We forget that sometimes we are just humans behind these screens, who cry, get their hearts broken, who live most their days in yoga pants and often don’t leave our homes let alone our beds when we work. It has become assumed that the life we create on our social media channels are the ones that we live daily but what we don't realize is that it’s missing the necessary messy of what makes us human.

Everyone enjoys a good filter and the perfect golden hour, we are people who appreciate the beauty in life and rightfully so but we almost glorify the beauty in a way that makes us assume that’s how we need to be all the time. I have always been someone who assumed my vulnerability and need to be real in every moment was “too much” overbearing or just plain unnecessary but then as my social media following grew, I realized it was something that people were craving. The ability to be real, authentic and honest with our human capacity to feel. Don’t get me wrong, I appreciated and still appreciate a good aesthetic photo with an outfit that I probably planned days in advance but one of the parts that I strive to focus on within my engagement is the stories of realness, the very raw candidness of where I’m at in that season, what I’m learning and what I’m feeling. I realized that I didn’t want my social media channels to just be outlets where I put my best foot forward all the time and conveyed the lie that’s how my life was 24/7. I wanted my social media outlets to be a continuation of who I was already, not who I was trying to be. I noticed that the posts that gained the most engagement were often the ones where I would refer to as spilling  the captions that maybe were more personal, vulnerable and honest than the sassy or short and sweet ones. I studied what posts my audience engaged with most, comments or likes and realized one thing: we strive to connect and thread ourselves in others stories.

Our social Media pages are more than just photo feeds, they are still shots of who we are, what we’re passionate about and what we stand for. They are extensions of us, our stories and they should encapsulate not only the beautiful moments but also the messy, the most authentic aspect of who we are being brought to light. Each of us are walking, breathing and beautiful stories uniquely given to each of us and the ability to connect those stories with people from all over the world through social media is a gift, one to tread softly on with grace, intentionality and authenticity. 